
                             French Grotesque
                          -----------------------
                    Released as shareware in June 1997.

     "Grotesque" is one of the most misused words in typography. In
     this case, it has its normal, non-typographic meaning, as French
     Grotesque is roughly based on a series described simply as
     "lettres grotesques" (grotesque letters) shown in a specimen
     sheet issued by the Deberny foundry in Paris in 1910. Deberny
     produced the series as outline and fill fonts for two-colour
     printing in 18 pt., 24 pt. and 36 pt. sizes. A hollow version,
     similar to the outline but with no fill, was available in 10, 12,
     18, 24 and 36 points.

     The specimen sheet shows only a few words in each size. In most
     cases I have followed the design of the letters shown, and I have
     added missing letters and a full Adobe Standard character set.
     Two pairs of ornaments shown in the specimen sheet are in the [ ]
     and { } positions.

     French Grotesque was drawn in Fontographer 3.5 on a Windows
     computer, and FontLab 2.5 was used extensively in correcting and
     refining the font. The Macintosh versions were generated with
     Fontographer 4.0.4.

     I am releasing this font as shareware and asking for a
     registration fee of $15 (Canadian dollars for Canadian users;
     U.S. dollars or the equivalent of US$15 in local currency for
     users outside Canada).

     Registered users will receive a receipt and notice of any new
     versions or fonts that I release. For Canadian users, the price
     includes GST and, in Quebec, QST.

     Please send your registration fee in the form of a Canadian
     cheque or an international money order, with your name and return
     address, to:

          Jonathan Paterson
          3534 de Lorimier
          Montreal, Quebec
          Canada  H2K 3X6

          E-Mail: paterson@mlink.net
 
     This font may not be sold or modified without my written consent.
     French Grotesque may not be distributed without this text file.

     To avoid loss of quality, please do not convert this font to other 
     formats without checking with me first. French Grotesque is currently 
     available in four formats (PostScript and TrueType for both 
     Macintosh and Windows) and has been tested in all four formats. 
     If you have received the wrong version, please download the version 
     you need from:

          http://www.mlink.net/~paterson/jpfonts.htm

